Hi everybody and welcome back.
So as you can see here we're still in our book class.
And again like I did in her lecture before going out and a quick comment here accessing attributes.
No.
So in this lecture we're going to look at calling methods.
So what are our methods.
Well these were methods here TGF sort of the same as functions but inside a class so any function inside
a class is called a method.
So at the moment we have four methods.
The ones we're going to be calling our e-book self back right back.
So let's look at how we do that now.
So after we create an instance from a class book after we create an instance from our class book we
can use that notation to call any method defined in book.
So let's say does my book is a soft back.
How do we do that.
So if that's run that's nothing because I left the brackets.
Now Elon Musk is a soft back book.
Nice to call him method.
Give the name of the instance in this case my book and the method you want to call separated by a touch
when playing read my book Dorsch self back it looks for the method itself back in the class book and
runs that code.
The syntax is quite useful when attributes and methods have been given appropriate descriptive names
like name price.
Open close whatever it might be.
We can easily infer what a block of code is supposed to do.
Let's call another method here.
So my book does hardback.
Let's see what we got.
My brackets again is a hardback book.
OK so let's add another method so that C D F and isn't going to be related or ebox what we're going
to say is e-book reader
self
and what we're going to say is for description.
Simulate an ebook reader and is going to become useful later on.
Now what does an ebook reader have.
Well it has battery power it has a backlight it has a touch screen and has a lot of other functions
that a normal book paper book doesn't have.
So let's say we're reading the Eli must book print and let's say we have.
So as we know in e-books we have a library so let's use Let's create a kind of a library listing here.
So print library.
There we go.
And in our library we are going to have our name so that will be self name tough title.
We're also going to have I forgot my plus symbol there so let's just put that in and in making this
up as we go.
So bear with me.
So what else will our book have.
Well it's going to have a price because as you know if you're looking down your Kindle or whatever e-book
reader use in your library you have the name you have the price and you have the publisher.
So plus self darte sell sell price.
There we go.
Price price plus self publisher publisher it to this title.
OK.
And then after this we just out in a full stop.
Plus let's see what we get.
There we go.
Now let me just go back to the start of this line.
E-book print library.
OK.
Now so let's remove all of our code here
including accessing attributes because I'm not going to do that at the moment.
Let's add in a new comment calling our e-book reader or e-book
reader method.
OK.
So let's do that now.
And how do we call it like we just seen we say my book does e-book reader brackets and let's see what
we get in error.
Of course we do because we have the price and that has to be a string.
I should have known that I was thinking that as I wrote it but then I just lost my train of thought.
OK let's run it again.
There we go.
Library.
Elon Musk I've no space there because I have to add in my spaces plus space plus
another space
plus another space
good learning curve.
First of all there we go.
Currently I'm so in my library.
I have lived in Isla Musk forking 99 Virgin Books and what I could do here is I could put in comments
I could clean this up a little bit if I wanted so I could do that here.
I don't at start.
Obviously I need it here after a name.
There we go.
Fourteen ninety nine.
There we go and believe that.
So let's say it's a little bit cleaner now.
Ninety nine.
You can put in our dollar sign as well if we wanted.
There we go.
So as you can see here the ebook reader method could come in very handy if we are creating a piece of
software related to an ebook or if we were an Amazon kind of type of bookselling Web site where we can
show the different types of books that we sell such as hardback self back or e-book we could call it
different methods related to the different page that the user is viewing and all we would have to do
is add in more methods.
So you can see here now the power of our class.
I hope you found it useful as always if you have any questions please reach out to me.
If not I'll see you in the next lecture.
Thank you.